There's an old Bob Dylan song where,
where he laughs before he starts playing
and I always think about that laughter
before he starts playing, you know?
And sometimes, I rewind it and I just listen to him laugh.
It's just this amazing, unexpected moment
because you're listening to listen to music,
you know, you're not listening to listen to Bob Dylan laugh.
And, that' magic, right there, that's magic.
You are the magician, take them both, squeeze on it tight.
Both hands in the air, like this.
Everybody count to three for her.
One, two, three.
Blow on your hand, shake up here like this.
Shake up here like this, shake like this.
(children laughing)
Open your hands up wide, see how you did.
(children squealing and laughing)
Magic is creating a moment for someone else,
where they forget that reality is reality.
And, they actually question everything for a moment.
And, not in a scary way, but in the most exciting way,
because, magic is an experience.
Magic is a total moment of being astonished,
and questioning what you believe.
Count to three.
One, two, three.
Poof.
(applause)
Do you want to see more, say more.
(children cheering)
You know, it's funny, it's funny,
'cause I left New York City to find something better
and I spent over a year and a half traveling
and hitch hiking with my dog Cloud Kicker.
We went to all these towns, all these places
that people kept bragging about, you gotta go
to this place, 'cause you can be an artist there.
You can create there, you gotta check this place out.
They're so open, you know, they're so free.
And, I went to all those places, every single one.
And, it's funny after all these years,
it all journeyed back to New York City.
♫ Buy a little kingdom
♫ Free yourself from every symptom
♫ On a golden road
♫ Ain't what it seems, but if you got the ways and means
♫ If you got the ways and means ♫
Every weekend I do multiple shows
and there's only so much I can carry with my two hands.
And, the idea that I'm just strapping a suit jacket,
a top hat, and a suitcase, and I'm able to perform
a 40 minute show that's beat, after beat, after beat
of magic and comedy and fun.
But, only having it within the lines of what you can carry
is an amazing thing and I've worked really hard at that.
Wave the magic wand, tap on my hand, ow.
(children giggling)
Count to three, one, two.
Three.
(mumbles)
(clapping)
That's disgusting, I would never do that Owen.
Blow on my hand and say abracadabra.
Abracadabra.
And it's gone, whoever claps the loudest for Owen,
everyone say, yay Owen.
One of the first weeks I went out and I found
this bird right here, this is Mozzarella.
Because I was taking a big risk with trying
to do magic full time, I knew it was important
to have a companion during my performances.
I started talking to Mozzarella and I was saying
to Mozzarella, like look dude we gotta be buddies, you know,
and we gotta be friends and we're gonna be working together
and we need to train and get this act together.
And as I was talking to him I was saying,
I hope that this is something that you really wanna do.
Mozzarella puffed up and started singing to me
and I took it as this big sign of hope that I might be
on the right track and as silly as it was to talk to,
was like a really important thing that night.
I have a little space that I rent out
and I do all my sewing in there, you know, if I have to
paint or if I have to build something, it's a place away
away from home so I can make all that dust and dirt
and leave it there when I leave.
One of the parts of my show that I am the most excited about
and, is the opening of my show where I have signs drop
and flags come out and flowers come out.
And, I just wanted to show you guys a little
behind-the-scenes real quick this.
The signs are actually pizza boxes
from our local pizzeria and I cut them up into strips
and I just used some tape to tape them together
and I just painted them, that's all they are.
I went through a lot of trouble to find a can like this,
because I wanted something that would not only match the
suitcase, but also the colors I use during my magic show.
So, I spent the whole,
I spent the whole summer building into this can
and I wanted to fit as much insanity into this can as I
(tapping)
into this can, for example
Stop that.
(tapping)
I, and I spent all summer, and this whole can now
is self contained, it does all kinds of craziness.
(tapping)
Stop it and anyways, there's all kinds of stuff I can do
with this can and I spent a good three months on it.
I even added a little bit of a, I even added a little bit
of fire, I don't know if I can do it, let's see.
Fire, come out.
(laughs)
(buzzing)
Wow.
(buzzing and humming)
Hmm, I gotta rewire this because,
for some reason it's not, this is staying in focus here.
This is a monkey that I'm building.
I can't own a real monkey, so my idea was if I could
make a really live looking monkey it would be really cool.
He's made with wood and there's wine cork, carved wine cork
for his mouth and stuff, and then all the wire
is coat hangers that I just cut up.
I hooked up all the motors into the microcontroller,
it's running on a USB cable to my computer and
on my computer I named my program, Mechanical Monkey Head.
You know, hey monkey I'm the best magician
in the world, right?
Yeah and then, you know, he'll say yes and then,
when I look away, he'll nod no or something,
you know to the kids.
In the beginning of when I started with electronics
I was completely fascinated with these little capacitors
and resistors that are built into circuits
and I'm just like, I don't understand how this all works,
you know, it's like crazy, it's a whole other system
of artwork that I have no idea about.
This is an honest, true story, like when I first,
I was so excited to build this whole lightning machine.
I went onto the guts of a television and I stuck pliers in
to take the suction cup off of the glass part.
Having no idea that even if a television is turned off
for months, it holds a huge charge of electricity.
So, I had no idea, so mind you I'm plying this off with
pliers and all of the sudden, this huge spark comes out and
my whole arm shot back and the pliers went across the room.
It was really, really scary and you know,
I learned a lot after that moment of it
really researching every part.
So, this was super dangerous and
I probably won't build one of these again.
(sparking)
A lot of magic is kind of like a hand craft,
like you have to actually make your stuff.
Like, you can't just, I mean if you wanna just go
to the magic store or like, you know, and buy, you know
props, you know, that's cool, you know, whatever.
That's kind of how you get started, but then like
eventually, it becomes like music or any other art field
where you wanna start creating your own.
There's not a lot of supply, you know, and that excites me,
because I wanna be one of the suppliers.
But, a supplier of imagination and new ideas
and of new comedy and secretly, you know,
adding all my knowledge of electronics.
Now, I'm gonna pick a few people.
(children laughing)
I said flowers out, not on the floor.
As you can see, I am the world's greatest magician.
(children laughing)
Stop that, sorry about that, now, as I was saying.
Everyone say, flags up.
Flags up.
(children laughing)
Let me feel good, clap so loud if you want--
It's all about reinforcing a kid's natural instinct
to believe, and I believe that each labored over routine,
each hand made prop, each gesture of controlled chaos
in my performance sends this message to them
in a louder voice than I could ever project in words.
Take a deep breath.
And yes, my own hands have labored over these props.
I've spent hours building, practicing, honing, inventing,
adapting, but in reality Mario the Magician is the creation
of every child I've ever performed for.
They've molded my character, they've taught me
to speak their language.
(audience cheers)
Sometimes after a show, I'll put on that old Dylan song.
And, it's funny 'cause I realize now, I never found magic.
Magic found me.
♫ Good time
♫ Had a real good time
♫ Real, real good time
♫ A hell yeah, a good time
♫ Had a real good time
♫ Real, real good time
♫ A hell yeah good time
♫ Good time
♫ Had a real good time
♫ Real, real good time
♫ Had a real good time ♫